---
title: "A little field trip"
date: 2020-01-04T08:14:19+01:00
type: "posts"
tags: ["astronomy", "observation"]
description: "On a hunt for shooting stars"
---

{{<observation_metadata location="home, @ freeway" time="03:30 - 04:30" temp="4">}}

## Spotted through Telescope:

* nothing

## Observation(s)

First of all ... **Happy New Year !!!**. All the best for a new decade, including a lot of clear nights !!

According to my [source](https://www.allesoversterrenkunde.nl/) tonight the Quadrantids were a their maximum. So I got up in the middle of the night to spot a shooting star (or more). In Dutch they are called Boötiden, which gives you a spoiler on where in the night's sky you have to look. While standing outside of my house I spotted one, hoozah !! Because this time of year the nights tend to be cold I wasn't able to stand out for long.

At that point it sprang to my mind ... why not go on an excursion ? So I did. With my spouse's new company car (heated seats :-)) it's a bit more comfortable. I drove around for a bit looking for a dark spot. Even though my home town isn't too big a town, finding a spot where the light pollution isn't too high is not straightforward. I ended up here: 50.936375, 5.297549.
<center><iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d2514.612602715828!2d5.302195524945923!3d50.930882894347256!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x0%3A0x0!2zNTDCsDU1JzUxLjIiTiA1wrAxOCcxNC43IkU!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sbe!4v1578122643680!5m2!1sen!2sbe" width="600" height="450" frameborder="0" style="border:0;" allowfullscreen=""></iframe></center>

Here I saw 2 more shooting stars :-). Because I always was driving/walking around for more than an hour. I decided to head back home and look for my (warm) bed again. It was a small, but fun and satisfactory excursion.

## Pondering(s)

There are number of names that spring to mind when talking about a shooting star (or *falling* star, in Dutch): meteor, meteorite, meteoroid, ... What's the difference and which is to correct term for what I spotted ?

[Here](https://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/asteroids/overview/fastfacts.html) is web page (by Nasa) that brings light in the linguistic darkness. First there are these 2:

* **Asteroid** A relatively small, inactive, rocky body orbiting the Sun.
* **Comet**  A relatively small, at times active, object whose ices can vaporize in sunlight forming an atmosphere (coma) of dust and gas and, sometimes, a tail of dust and/or gas.

A small piece can break of of both aforementioned bodies. When such a piece starts orbiting the Sun, it is called a **Meteoroid** (**Meteoroide**, in Dutch). If such a meteoroid enters the Earth's atmosphere it can vaporise and looks for us, earthlings, like as shooting star. When this happens the piece of asteroid or comet is called a **Meteor** (**Meteoor**, in Dutch). Finally if the meteor finds a way through the Earth's atmosphere to the Earth's surface, it is called a **Meteorite** (**Meteoriet**, in Dutch).


## TODO:

* study up on Physics wrt lenses an the **refraction** of light

* figure out the up-side-down-iness when looking at the moon *DUHU*

Everything is corrected. Top is top and left is left. So this makes me think that there is a correction in the eyepiece. **more details needed**